Soulfire We've been writing a series of statements in P HP the two executed one after another.
We've also learnt how to encapsulate a book of code into a function and then call that function from
our code.
This is known as procedural programming
with object oriented programming.
We can encapsulate code into classes.
A class is like a blueprint or a template.
We can then use this template to create objects of that class.
For example you might have a User class and objects of that class could include Dave Alice Bob and so
on.
You might have a book class and objects of that class might include Hamlet Moby Dick.
Wire and Peace and so on.
Once a class is defined you can create as many objects as you like of that class.
Let's look at an example.
First let's create a file called 0 exampled up here.
P
and will add the p p opening tag to define a class in P HP.
We put class followed by the name of the class.
Then we have some curly braces inside which we will define the class's properties and methods will look
at these shotley to create an object of a class.
We used a new key word followed by the class name and optionally some brackets.
I prefer to always put the brackets even if they're empty.
We'll see what these brackets are used far later on to test this out.
Let's use var dump to print out the contents of the variable.
When we run this code in a browser we get an object of class item.
We can create as many objects of a class as we like.
So let's add another one and print that object out to like that.
And when we run the code there we see the two objects printed out.
Now you can have the class definition and the code that uses it in the same file like this.
But it's better to have each class definition in its own file.
We'll see why this is a good idea later on.
So let's create a new file and call it item up HP.
Will cut the class definition out of here
then paste it in here and then back in the first file.
Will require this new file like that.
Note how as we saw earlier if a file contains just p HP code the p p closing tag isn't needed and it's
actually recommended not to put it.
And in the browser it works as before.
When I created this class file I named it with the same name as the class including starting it with
a capital letter.
It's important to do this so that we can automatically load this file which will then how to do later
on.
As for naming the class classes can have any name you like but the PSA coding standard says you must
use stoodley Caps like this.
This means that the class name starts with a capital letter and if the class name contains more than
one word that word starts with a capital letter two we'll see several examples of classes throughout
the rest of the course.